>> Steve Kinney: I do wanna talk
about one other thing, which is,
there's a whole class of things
called parser generators.
And these are effectively,
it's kind of meta.
It's a domain specific language, or
there's various ones of
domain-specific languages for
generating domain-specific languages,
right?
And I am of mixed feelings on them,
one, in learning them,
you're kind of learning
that parser generator.
Some of them are based on like Bison or
Yak, or something along those lines.
But generally speaking, you're learning
that kind of parser generator, and
not any of the stuff
that goes on behind it.
But there's a trade-off and
so here's a little,
the bold part is the important one.
But this idea that they're compiler
compilers, but they only take a tiny
percentage of the job cuz I'll show
you some syntax of some of them.
Where they become interesting is when,
we suffer from the problem where our back
end is in Go and
our front end is in JavaScript.
And sometimes what we show in the preview
has to be run through the compiler as well
as what happens on the back end, right?
And so in the places where you can maybe
use a parser generator to generate
a JavaScript parser and a Go parser,
that is kinda the dream.
We don't, in fact, do that, but
that would be the hope in this case.
But generally speaking,
I'll show you a few of them,
if they're interesting to you,
I think they're worth taking a look.
But they have never effectively
solved the problem for me.
And it's not that I'm writing them off,
I see promise and merit in them.
But I think it's always worth evaluating
the trade-offs of a thing that you have
kinda the complete flexibility and
control over,
versus something where you're kind of
bending to the way it does things.
So you see, this is even, to kind of
do a very kind of simple syntax, you're
basically writing a bunch of all the rules
for a language in a very linguistic sense.
This is one called Jison, which is
based on Bison, which is based on Yak.
Get it, it's a pun cuz it's JavaScript.
And so it's not like reading,
I'll tell you that much, right?
But it is kind of powerful that
you could theoretically generate,
this is what Handlebars uses like
under the hood to generate the parser.
But then also, there's some
additional stuff along the way.
So it is another area,
if this is a thing you're really into,
there are things like Antler,
which is kind of Java-based,
that do some really kind of
impressive stuff as well.
Worth looking into, but I think for me,
I've a lot of times got a lot
of benefit of just a piece or
two of some of these concepts and
being able to use them.
So there's Jison and here's,
this one's I think Chevron,
where you kind of define everything.
You get these kind of cool graphs, but
there's a learning curve that you
have to kinda make the choice on.
Nearley is another one, you can kind
of see, their syntaxes [INAUDIBLE].
This one will match a hexadecimal color
and CSS, or different colors, right?
I would argue that we have the skill set
now to write a parser to do that too,
right?
And so you kinda have to make
the choice in those cases,
or you don't have to make the choice,
right?
And there's some other list-specific
things that we didn't get into.
One of the things I said
during one of the breaks was,
a lot of times, when implementing a list,
it'll be a series of arrays.
Ours was that we also kind of
had one foot in the tree realm.
And the reason for that was, I think
there's a lot of value in understanding
the visitor pattern on the ASTs and
transpiling to Babel.
And that kind of got a little hairy and
complicated with a bunch of arrays and
casting a bunch of stuff.
There's a bunch of really
cool stuff that you can do.
So this is creating a lambda, which you
see we could add to the environment.
I think what's kind of cool here is,
you basically are making a function.
And you're using those parameters and
you're kind of merging them
with the environments.
You're creating like ideas of scope,
right, by having, okay, whatever's in
this scope, if there's an x in our local
scope, it overrides the global scope.
But then when we're back out of that one,
we're using the global scope again.
And you can implement a lot of those
things, this is effectively it, right?
For implementing it in JavaScript,
we'd have to tweak our parser in a way
that would have made it a little,
the value wasn't really there, right, for
the extra work that we'd have to do there.
But I think that as you begin to think
about different concepts in languages,
it does also help to help you understand
how they work when you start to
implement them as well.
So on top of the very practical things,
I think there's also a lot
of rich language we use.
We effectively are surrounded by these
things and we use them every day, right,
[LAUGH] in all sorts of ways.
Obviously, we use stuff that is compiled,
but especially in the JavaScript land,
our JavaScript is run through a JavaScript
compiler, right, and all of those things.
I think it's kind of interesting to see
how some of this stuff works in practice.